here Rio net we do a lot of technical
support and in fact that's part of our
commitment to you as a customer to be
able to answer your questions along the
way whether you have problems or
questions about a process probably the
most common problem and question people
have is with the emulsion coating
process the emulsion can be a pain in
the butt if you're not doing things
right so this section is going to
troubleshoot what can go wrong with
emulsion
so maybe you can weed out some of those
variables the first thing we're going to
talk about is coating the screen now a
typical quart of emulsion can coat
between maybe 20 25 maybe 30 screens
we've had people call that have coated
three screens with a quarter of emulsion
now three screens with this much
emulsion that's a lot of emulsion per
screen the problem is if you get too
much emulsion on your screen it's very
hard to expose it drips all over the
place you're wasting money in your
emulsion and you're having a lot of
problems during the exposure process so
here's the first troubleshooting point
when you're coding your screen you want
to put pressure on your scooped coder
don't be afraid to press against this
screen here let me demonstrate if I'm
doing the emulsion coding process wrong
I'm going to be afraid to put pressure
on this screen so what I've seen a lot
of people doing is not allowing the
emulsion to slip all the way onto the
mesh and build up a dam so when you try
to to pull the scooped coder up you're
actually not getting a coat of emulsion
on the screen also let's show what
happens if you don't put enough pressure
on the mesh remember as in the earlier
section you want to hear that little zip
if you don't hear that this is what
happens so I see a lot of screens coded
like this the first time so look at that
you have emulsion dripping all the way
onto the frame you didn't even get some
emulsion on the frame when really you
should coat like this you see how much
pressure I'm putting on that you can
really feel the pressure coming on to
the frame but going like this not
putting enough pressure you have all
sorts of problems you're going to see
inconsistencies in your emulsion your
most is going to be way too thick and
then you're going to get a mess all over
the place not to mention the fact that
you're wasting money in a mold
so if we then put this screen upside
down to dry we'd have this emulsion
dripping all over the place on to other
screens and becoming a real pain in the
butt to work with the other thing is if
you have a thick coat of emulsion on
your screen you see how much emulsion
under there and that's only one side so
we put more moles on the backside think
of how much longer this has to expose
versus a molding coat that's thin now
grant and member when we saw the white
video and let me reference you to the
screen printing white video that talks
about using a thick coat of emulsion and
how to properly do that in order for a
good ink deposit on your shirt but this
is not the right way to do this and this
is a lot of the problems people have
when they get going coating their
screens is they put way too much
emulsion on it so the the point of this
lesson is to make sure to push tight on
your scooped coder and here that zip as
it comes up the frame that's the most
important part in the coating process if
you don't do that
you can have too much emulsion on your
screen and run into problems let's go to
the next part the next thing we'll
discuss and troubleshooting is actually
the emulsion itself and when you're
using a dual cured item emulsion
remember the emulsion has a shelf life
of about three months so if your
emulsion expires you can have problems
during the exposure process the other
thing you cannot let your motion do is
freeze if the emulsion freezes at any
point in time it will deactivate and be
very very hard to use if not impossible
to use here's an example of some of
moles and that's starting to go bad you
see it starts to clump up and become
discolored discolored you see clumps
starting to form on the belt on the
emulsion now granted this emulsion right
here is still probably good and we could
get away with exposing with it but as an
emotional starts to go bad it's going to
become more clumpy and more clumpy
thicker harder to work with it's going
to actually coat solids on your screen
rather than coating just a liquid
emulsion and it's not going to expose
very well you want to make sure to date
your emulsion once you mix the dazzle
into it that way you know when it's
starting to reach its threshold point
and will be close to expiring remember
three to four months so if you have that
three month point you also want to make
sure to have another quart of emulsion
or another gallon of moles are ready to
go in case this one goes bad you have
that ready to go
start using that immediately storage
temperatures you don't want to get too
cold if it freezes remember it's
completely bad and then you don't want
to get it too hot if it's in a hot room
it will expire a lot sooner so you want
to keep emulsion in a 60 70 degree room
not much colder not much warmer always
keep the lid on it and always keep it in
the dark for safe precaution even though
these containers are pretty solid black
but having it in a cool dark place is
always optimal for your mulching
you